armor IS synonymous  with defense.  enemy NPC will produce damage (with no flavor a hit is a hit  that's about it )
when it comes to pvp , pvp areas will have  a global modifier  within the area that will  reduce damage output  vs  player characters  by  a certain %. but that will probably not be the case for i probably expect  pvp to be a side thing  not a main thing i will not build with damage types  in mind because  that requires  a lot of other things  so for now  we will consider everything as pve  related  so flat damage number vs flat defense number calculation with the result of that getting extracted from the HP pool  with or without  bubble  depending on situation . the defense numbers will have their source from various places like player gear player passives  player skills and 3rd party effects  (group buffs) foods and other things along those lines.
bubbles will be influenced by critical and healing modifiers, duration modifiers  and i do expect  the bubble to be a even x2 a target's hp at times if not more. so the reason for it being less potent  in the defense aspect  is because i foresee abundance .
Dot's are "apply burn/poison /TBD for few seconds and timer can be extended/reset. the damage will be a added thing  and the general use is additional damage  because why not . dots  are fluff on top . some skills  will probably have  bonus damage  if target is burning  or something like that . so  it will be a fixed amount of damage. worst case scenario it will be % target max hp damage  using special materials that grant that effect  when used to craft  the weapon . but i do not see the need to have it crit. for consistency we can consider DOTS  as true damage for the calculations and move on.
core idea is for crit damage stacking as main way of getting more damage out of the kit . there is a limit on how much base damage you can get  with out changing the weapon structure /shape to much . best materials in the game will give u a reasonable base attack calculation  value . but  for it to be worth something  critical damage will need to be potent  to make up for the lack of base  damage values. that is the core design and the core idea behind it. massive numbers are acceptable  and i foresee the need of large amounts of damage  because  i intend to make fights  really challenging. so i will get damage  to be rewarding . and i do not think a full build max damage  build max critical damage build combination  will 1 shot any elite  or boss . 5-shot probably  but the lowest  ones on the lowest floors  and as some one who can do that  i see no benefit  in them doing that other then "fun" acceptable 
tank people will have their own builds and damage will need to be there . it is boring to fight  a boss and not loose aggro from time to time, playing Ping-Pong  with the boss by fighting  to hold aggro is fun for tank players . also feels rewarding for dps players  when they manage to take aggro . worst case scenario we can balance the threat bonus amount to something to match the dps. so single number change will balance that  aspect.
 
for healing and res aggro it will be a simple calculation it will consider healing output  as damage values so that healers  need to throttle the healing and not just spam things constantly essentially considering the healing as damage in the calculation, reresection will be considered  as a %250 of base damage for the threat  calculation . ( the values will need play testing and adjusting )


NPC daily limits. no there is no turnover form one day to the other if a day is missed. the chance to buy the items that are daily are missed. so that dose not  change  on how things work with the NPC unless there is an event  or something of sorts it will not allow backtracking 
"If it doesn’t bank, players in unlucky time zones get punished hard by the 9AM UTC reset." this makes no sense because a reset = restock and that means  people have literally 24h to get the materials . i just decided when that will happen.

"Trading happens mainly in raw drops and finished items, not processed mats" this statement is true 

"Blueprint extraction: uniqueness vs replication" a finished item  that is traded  form 3rd party or crafted by self  can be  dismantled  into blueprints  (besides the other things i mentioned it can be dismantled  in ) 
meaning you can get  a weapon you like with the skillset u like u buy that off some one, u sacrifice it  to make it  a blueprint, the blueprint that is created  in that way will retain  the "designed by @playername" and the end product  after re-crafting will be "designed by @playername" blueprints  can not be modified  in skills only better quality materials  slotted  in replacing the exact same materials following the recipe of the extracted  material. this results  in trademark ownership of a design  and trackability as well as shoutout for the creator and allowing the current owner to upgrade  the model  with best  materials  available  if the original  component  was a "design" component  made with the cheapest materials possible for re-selling intent. 
crafter thought  process= "i made this  if you like it buy it off me, and invest your rare drops  to craft it. i will charge for the design not the end product. i am not made of cash to make top quality finished products" (that is the rough idea)


"teleport scroll + logbook system"

it is pay for convenience. and i need to make money somehow off the game  and i consider it fair , i need to eat XD 

massive request  consolidate  GDD v0.01 with current  to be made GDD v0.02 so we have  coherence . i will remove the GDD v0.01 and replace it  with the GDD v0.02 once made  so you will need  to do a bit  of merging and adjusting .
