weapon building process 

basic ingredient  types 
-enemy mob components  that can be:
	-externals
		- scales, hides, fathers, carapace/ exoskeleton for insectoids
	-internal
		-bones, tendons, meat, fat, ligaments
	-cores
		-mana core
			-elemental cores
				-fire,  ice, electric,
Terre - An earth based element that makes up most matter.
Life - The element that gives motion to all living things, and fights against extinction.
Spirit - The element that gives the soul, willpower, and courage to all living things.
Fae - The element that all fairy type creatures control.
Order - The existential element that holds the entire world together.
Healing - An element that provides health and shelter to all living things, and can repair items.
Crystal - An element that makes up all crystals. it works as a catalyst for most light magics.
Frost - The element that makes up the ice and snow.
Caelus - The element that makes up the air and the sky.
Cloud - The element that makes up smoke, clouds, and steam.
Astral - The element that makes up the astral realm.
Aqua - A water based element that makes up the seas and the water.
Storm - An element that makes up the chaotic storms.
Lightning - The element that makes up electricity and thunder.
Malice - An element that gives evil and unholiness to all creatures.
Undeath - The element that creates all undead creatures.
Plague - An element that creates germs, plagues, and bacteria.
Chaos - The element that hopes to undo all that creates life, light, and all things good.
Corrupt - The element that brings all living things to the dark side.
Death - An element that brings inevitable death to all things living.
Pyro - The element that makes up all the fire, aether, and others alike.
Lava - The element that makes up the molten magma beneath the surface.
Explosion - An unstable element that creates all explosions and combustions.
Demon - The element that brings war and chaos to all living things.
Light - The element that makes up all light.
Holy - An element sustained by the belief of all living things, and has light-like powers.
Iron, Tin, Gold, Silver, Mercury, Copper, and Lead are all self explanatory.
Soul - An existential element that makes grants wisdom to all living things.